Let's now consider this question,
is an increase in time metrics a positive indicator?
The answer is, it depends.
First, we'll want to consider different business models.
If you are offering
primarily a publishing model and user engagement in itself is a good thing,
then an increase in time metrics would be a good thing.
If your model is lead generation,
an increase in time would be good if you also saw an increase in lead submissions.
Similarly, if your model is e-commerce and increase in time metrics would
be positive if we also saw an increase in conversion rate and revenue.
In the merchandise store account,
I've gone back to January 1st to December 31st of 2016
for a good illustration of time metrics versus conversion metrics.
First, I'm going to smooth out the time interval two month instead of day.
Next, I'm going to change the metric charted in
the main overtime graph from users to average session duration.
Now we see considerable fluctuation in
average session duration over the course of the year.
How can we know if this was a good thing or a bad thing?
Let's chart a second metric on the main overtime graph, e-commerce conversion rate.
Now we're telling a more meaningful story.
We see towards the end of the year,
when average session duration went up the most sharply,
we also saw a sharp increase in e-commerce conversion rate just what we'd want to see.
On the other hand, we may notice that in
July average session duration also went up considerably,
but e-commerce conversion rate went down for the month.
We'll get the scoop on this when we talk about annotations in an upcoming lesson.
But for now, we want to remember that for a transactional experience,
average session duration needs to be clarified with a conversion metric.